---
title: "Cryptomator Roadmap Early 2021"
slug: roadmap
date: 2021-04-08
tags: [cryptomator, desktop, android, ios]

summary: Development on Cryptomator 1.5.x is coming to an end and we are now working on the next major version 1.6.x. Read more about it in this roadmap!
---
Development on Cryptomator 1.5.x is coming to an end and we are now working on the next major version 1.6.x. Read more about it in this roadmap!

## State of the Desktop App
The update to version 1.6.0 is just around the corner! The release will mainly contain some invisible changes that will allow us to add new features in a timely manner. One of the main points here is to implement a new vault format (Vault Format 8). It makes the integration of other authentication methods in the future possible, for example to enable 2FA.

Another feature is the [integration of a sanitizer](https://github.com/cryptomator/cryptomator/projects/7). Until now, a separate program was needed to check the state of your vault and to execute cleanup and restore commands. In the future, this will be possible directly in the Cryptomator user interface.

In addition, there is now a prototype for the distribution of Cryptomator as a Microsoft Software Installation (.msi), but the implementation still has alpha character. Furthermore, we have updated Cryptomator to JDK 16 with the latest [version 1.5.14](https://github.com/cryptomator/cryptomator/releases/tag/1.5.14), which brings some upstream fixes. Unfortunately, we could not make any progress with regard to Flatpak.

## State of the Android App
As you might have noticed in our blog, we finally published the source code of the app! Apart from that, vault format 8 is also a big topic in our development here.

Since the update to version 1.5.14 (currently still in a beta version), pCloud is natively supported by Cryptomator. Many thanks to Manu for [his open source contribution]((https://github.com/cryptomator/android/pull/283))! Another small change is that since the update 1.5.13, it is possible to sort the vault list and thus get a better overview of the vaults.

But that's not all we have planned for the Android app! We are happy to release Cryptomator on F-Droid soon. Also, we hope to be able to include more clouds soon and enable access to content of the vault via third-party apps with a "document provider".

## State of the iOS App
With the introduction of vault format 8, the "old" iOS app will probably get its last major update to version 1.6.0.

Meanwhile, work on the "new" iOS app continues. As announced in the last roadmap, the iOS app will be fully integrated into the Files app. We are already very far along. Nevertheless, we still have some work to do, as we want to offer some features like dark mode or support for multiple accounts from the same cloud provider right from the start.

We can't promise you an exact release date yet, but we hope we will release a first beta version via TestFlight in the summer.
