---
title: "1.6.7 - Major changes on Windows"
slug: 1-6-7-major-changes-on-windows
date: 2022-03-25
tags: [cryptomator, installer, windows]

summary: "Cryptomator Desktop 1.6.7 contains major changes for windows users: A new installer and an additional driver"
-----
Hello Community!
​
the last blog post is already a while ago, hope you're all doing fine.
Cryptomator Desktop 1.6.7 is out now and with it a bag of changes!
So another day, another release?
Not quite, this 1.6.7 contains especially Windows users some noteworthy changes, which will be explained in this article.
​
## New Installer
​
With Cryptomator Desktop 1.6.0 instead of delivering a normal executable for installation, we provided a [Windows Installer package](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windows_Installer) to allow easier scripted deployment of Cryptomator.
But this approach also had drawbacks: We couldn't bundle third party drivers (i.e. Dokany) leading to inferior user experience.
​
These dire times are over! When you head over to https://cryptomator.org/downloads/ and select Windows, you're getting a  executable again, that bundles the .msi as well as additional dependencies.
Furthermore, it supports command line parameters (e.g., `/quiet`), for a complete list run the exe-Installer with the `/?` parameter.
​
If you want to download the "pure" Cryptomator MSI without any other stuff, just head over to the [release site](https://github.com/cryptomator/cryptomator/releases/tag/1.6.7).
​
## New Default VFS Driver (Virtual Volume)
​
As already mentioned, the new .exe bundle can include dependencies again, so we added one right from the start: [Winfsp](https://winfsp.dev/).
​
This decision is mainly based on the long term maintenance effort.
The integration of a vault into the OS currently supports WebDAV (legacy), Dokany (Windows) and FUSE (all systems). FUSE support (provided by WinFSP) on Windows is now available for quite a while and feedback was very promising, so time has come to make this the default choice, so we can focus on a common code base. 
That said, WebDAV and Dokany will remain part of Cryptomator, should you prefer it in your individual setup.
Please note that the latest major release of Dokany is not yet supported and our existing Dokany glue code requires a migration.
​
There are some known issues with WinFSP, though:
* If you are logged in to Windows via an AzureAD account, vaults can only be accessed read-only
* Access with the admin rights is only possible when the vault is mounted into a directory (as opposed to a drive letter)
​
If you aren't affected by any of these issues however, we encourage you to use Winfsp/FUSE.
​
​
Those were the two major changes you should know about. For all changes, have a look at the [changelog](https://github.com/cryptomator/cryptomator/releases/tag/1.6.7). Hope you are enjoying this Cryptomator update.
​
Your Cryptomator Team
