---
title: "Cryptomator Hub 1.0 Release"
slug: hub-1.0
date: 2022-11-03
tags: [cryptomator, hub]

summary: We are happy to announce that Cryptomator Hub, the team and enterprise solution for Cryptomator, is now ready for production use! Huge thanks to our testers that participated in our open beta over the last 3 months for their feedback.
---
We are happy to announce that Cryptomator Hub, the team and enterprise solution for Cryptomator, is now ready for production use! :tada: Huge thanks to our testers that participated in our open beta over the last 3 months for their feedback. :heart:

## What is Cryptomator Hub?

In short: Cryptomator Hub adds access management for your Cryptomator vaults. It enables a secure way for you to work in teams with confidential and sensitive files for any cloud storage.

Check out our quick introduction video to learn more about the basics.

<div class="relative aspect-16x9">
  <iframe class="absolute w-full h-full" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/D14fzrsPCxY" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

## How does Cryptomator Hub work?

Cryptomator Hub is based on the same concept of a vault, a secure file storage for syncing to the cloud with end-to-end encryption. New is that Hub replaces the vault password with a central access management.

Individual access to Cryptomator vaults is secured through server-side authentication and key management. Hub manages key material based on a zero-knowledge solution without getting in touch with unencrypted keys. [Learn more.](https://github.com/cryptomator/hub/wiki/Zero-Knowledge-Key-Management)

## How can I get started?

The self-hosted solution is delivered as a software container and can be deployed using Kubernetes or Docker. Vist the [landing page](/hub/) of Cryptomator Hub to get started.

Hub can be used for free for up to 5 team members. For larger teams and companies, an annual license can be purchased through the website at $6.00 per seat per month. Until the end of the year, there is a promotional discount that gives 25% off for the first year. :confetti_ball:

And as always, Cryptomator Hub is fully [open source](https://github.com/cryptomator/hub). If you have more questions, let us know in the discussion below or [contact us](mailto:hub@cryptomator.org). We are looking forward to your feedback! :robot:
