---
title: "Cryptomator Roadmap Early 2022"
slug: roadmap
date: 2022-04-04
tags: [cryptomator, desktop, android, ios]

summary: There have been a lot of changes in the past year. With this roadmap, we want to give you an overview of what has changed in Cryptomator and what you can look forward to in the coming months.
---
There have been a lot of changes in the past year. With this roadmap, we want to give you an overview of what has changed in Cryptomator and what you can look forward to in the coming months.

## iOS Version
At the end of last year, we were finally able to introduce our new iOS app. One of the main features is the full integration with Apple's own Files app. We also made it possible to offer you a "freemium" version of the app. If you want to know even more about the new features, check out this [blog post](https://cryptomator.org/blog/2021/12/21/ios-2.0/). Since then, we've been working on bringing you more features through several updates, such as the auto-lock feature that came with version 2.1.0. With the just released version 2.2.0, we integrated pCloud and added support for shortcuts in Google Drive.

We have a lot more planned for the app in the coming months. We will integrate Cryptomator into [Shortcuts](https://support.apple.com/guide/shortcuts/welcome/ios) so that automation processes such as "auto photo upload" are possible. We also plan to integrate S3, as we did with our Android app.

## Android Version
Over the past few months, we have been working on increasing the compatibility of Cryptomator. This includes the fact that we now support pCloud, S3, and Vault Format 8. Thanks again Manuel (mjenny on GitHub) for contributing support for pCloud and S3. Also, Cryptomator can now be installed and updated via F-Droid. Vaults in Google Drive can now be used via shortcuts in locations outside of "My Drive". This works in "Shared with Me", "My Computer", and "My Drive" for example. With OneDrive, it is possible to use multiple accounts at the same time. We will make this feature available for Dropbox and Google Drive in the future. In addition, a "real" auto photo upload is available in the Android version, meaning new pictures and videos are now uploaded not only after unlocking the vault, but directly when it is unlocked.

In the coming months, we will switch the Android app to a freemium model, as we did with iOS, and continue to work on the long-awaited document provider.

## Desktop Version
With version 1.6.0 announced in the last roadmap, we introduced Vault Format 8 for our Desktop version. You can read more about it [here](https://cryptomator.org/blog/2021/10/11/vault-format-8/). For better usability, we have introduced error codes and a [knowledge base](https://github.com/cryptomator/cryptomator/discussions/categories/errors) of those, where you can look up solutions for the issue you’ve encountered. We also introduced an auto-lock feature that automatically locks the vaults after a self-defined inactivity time as well as a plugin API. The first plugin for Cryptomator is the [KeePassXC plugin](https://plugin.purejava.org/) via an open-source contribution by Ralph (purejava on GitHub). Furthermore, we improved our build systems so that applications/installers for all operating systems are automatically built and signed (instead of manually).

Two years ago, one might remember that we announced to focus our efforts on Flatpak distribution. However, that didn’t go as planned and progress on it came to a halt… until recently. Our regular open-source contributor Ralph (purejava on GitHub) once again came to our rescue. And we actually did it! Cryptomator is now [available on Flathub as a Flatpak app](https://flathub.org/apps/details/org.cryptomator.Cryptomator). Again, huge thanks to Ralph for his amazing contribution!

For the Desktop version of Cryptomator, we have some major topics coming up in the near future. On the one hand, we are working on a major FUSE refactoring. Among other things, this is necessary to be able to offer ARM64 support on Windows and Linux as well. On Apple Silicon Macs, we have already supported this for a few releases. On the other hand, we want to address the open issues related to [extended attributes](https://github.com/cryptomator/cryptomator/projects/13). More precisely, we are talking about additional file attributes that enable tagging and fix compatibility issues. Of course, these attributes will be encrypted just like the filename.

If you read this far, we’d like to share a secret with you. We are currently working on [Cryptomator Hub](https://cryptomator.org/hub/). That’s it for now but you’ll definitely hear more about it this year.
