---
title: "Cryptomator 1.8.0 for Android"
slug: android-1.8.0
date: 2023-04-12
tags: [cryptomator, android]

summary: "We released Cryptomator 1.8.0 for Android last month but we wanted to let you know what changes it brings to you."
---
As you may have already noticed, we released Cryptomator 1.8.0 for Android last month! It contains a lot of internal changes, a bunch of new features, and some bug fixes.

This release took quite some time, but we finally made it. :tada: In addition to the [release notes](https://github.com/cryptomator/android/releases/tag/1.8.0), we'd like to give you more details about some changes.

## Material 3 Design

The most obvious change in this release is the migration to Material 3, which modernizes the user interface.

## Cryptomator Lite: Reproducible Build and F-Droid

A less obvious change is that we now offer a new flavor: Cryptomator Lite.

This version is built using a reproducible build technique, which has two advantages: You as a user can verify that the published source code matches the published binary, which in turn means that we didn't and couldn't add anything during build time.

The other advantage is that this technique allows us to publish our app to stores like the main F-Droid repository, but sign it with our keys, which means we still have control over the signing keys.

Cryptomator Lite can be built using the following Docker image and then compared to the corresponding releases: <https://github.com/cryptomator/android/blob/main/buildsystem/Dockerfile>

## AES-GCM: New Default for Content Encryption

Starting with Cryptomator 1.8.0 for Android, we will follow our Desktop application: All newly created vaults will use [AES-GCM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Galois/Counter_Mode) instead of AES-CTR+HMAC for file content encryption.

You can continue to use your existing vaults as before, no action is required on your part. Cryptomator for Android will support both modes of operation.

Read more about this in the [Cryptomator 1.7.0 blog post](/blog/2023/02/01/1-7-0-what-you-need-to-know/).
