---
title: "Cryptomator 1.10.3 for Android: What’s New?"
slug: android-1.10.3
date: 2024-09-23
tags: [cryptomator, android]

summary: "Migrating vault passwords to GCM and Thai as a new language option."

---

After releasing updates for iOS and the desktop version of Cryptomator last week, it’s now time for Android! The new 1.10.3 update is now available, providing even stronger protection for your data. Let’s take a closer look at the key improvements.

## Key Updates at a Glance

- Migrating vault passwords to GCM
- Thai as a new language option

## What's New?

### Migrating Vault Passwords to GCM

We’ve improved the encryption for vault passwords and cloud credentials! From now on, we’re using AES-256 GCM instead of AES-256 CBC to provide even stronger protection. Passwords and credentials are still securely stored in the Android Keystore, and your data remains protected in internal storage thanks to Android’s sandbox model.

With the app update, existing cloud credentials and vault passwords will automatically migrate to the new format. You may opt out of migrating vault passwords, but if you do, the passwords will be deleted from the app for security reasons.

### New Language: Thai

Another exciting update: The Cryptomator app is now available in Thai! We’re thrilled to make our app accessible to even more users around the world and grow our community. This new language option makes it easier and more comfortable for Thai users to enjoy Cryptomator.

A big thank you goes out to our dedicated community for helping us optimize Cryptomator for more countries and languages. If you’d like to contribute to translations, feel free to join us here: https://translate.cryptomator.org.

## Conclusion

While the 1.10.3 update for Android might seem small at first glance, the improvements are crucial for the protection of your data. Even though the previous implementation was already secure within the Android ecosystem, we’ve enhanced it to meet the latest security standards.

We appreciate your ongoing feedback and support. Try out the new version and let us know what you think!
