---
title: "What's New in Cryptomator 1.14.2: Latest Update Highlights!"
slug: release-1.14.2
date: 2024-11-19
tags: [cryptomator]

summary: "We are excited to share the latest version of Cryptomator Desktop with you! This update focuses primarily on bug fixes for a smoother user experience."
---
We are excited to share the latest version of Cryptomator Desktop with you! This update focuses primarily on bug fixes for a smoother user experience. Let’s take a closer look at the details:

## What’s New?

**FUSE-T: Now Default with SMB Backend**

Cryptomator continues to evolve, offering better performance and seamless system integration. With this update, FUSE-T now defaults to the SMB backend, ensuring more reliable file operations on macOS 15.0.0.

## Bugfixes

We’ve worked hard to resolve reported issues and make Cryptomator even more stable:

**Cache Invalidation for Directories** 

CryptoFS includes a cache for performance reasons, which maps plaintext names to encrypted directories. A bug caused the cache not to invalidate correctly after directories were moved or deleted. This update fixes the issue, ensuring that directory listings are always accurate.

**"Server Connection Interrupted"**

On macOS 15.0.0, frequent connection interruptions between the system and an open vault were reported when using FUSE-T. These interruptions appeared as "Server Connection Interrupted" dialogs. Switching to SMB as the default backend has mitigated this issue while also improving performance.

**Quick Access Fix for GNOME Nautilus** 

An issue causing invalid quick-access entries in GNOME Nautilus has been resolved.

**Filesystem Consistency**

A previously theoretical issue that could lead to an inconsistent filesystem has been fixed. Previously, this could only be resolved by manually locking and unlocking the vault.

## Other Changes 

We’ve also updated the Thai translation to ensure Cryptomator speaks the language more fluently.

## Closing Remarks

We are continuously working to improve Cryptomator for our community. If you encounter any issues or have feedback, feel free to reach out to us or contribute on GitHub.

Stay tuned for more updates, and thank you for being part of the community!
