---
layout: post
title: "Cryptomator 1.2.0 Release"
date: 2016-09-21
tags: [cryptomator, desktop, ios]
stylesheets: ['/css/blog-post.css']

published: true
language: en
---
Cryptomator 1.2.0 for Windows, Mac, and Linux is out now!

### New Features
- On Windows and Mac you can now optionally save your password. This is a preparation for auto-unlock (GitHub Issue <a href="https://github.com/cryptomator/cryptomator/issues/40" target="_blank">40</a>), one of the most wanted features we're planning for the next minor release. Linux support will follow, as soon as we figured out a standard way to protect saved credentials across most distributions.
- New migration screen preventing accidental migration.
- Cryptomator for Mac will now appear in Dock + Application Switcher, when not minimized to the menu bar icon.

### Fixes and Improvements
- Improved speed of directory listing by using a deterministic cleartext size calculation.
- A full list of fixed issues can be found <a href="https://github.com/cryptomator/cryptomator/milestone/22?closed=1" target="_blank">here</a>.

### The Downside
Sadly, we had to drop file size obfuscation support. From this version onwards, there is a bijective function for calculating the cleartext size from the ciphertext size and vice versa.

We always strive to offer the best of both, security and usability. But sometimes we need to find a compromise in order to implement all the features, we're planning for future releases. In the past, we needed to access the first few bytes of a file in order to determine the cleartext file size, which led to `O(n)` I/O activities with `n` being the number of files per directories. In this case, we decided in favor of `O(1)` directory listings, which is especially useful for large directory listings, file size determination via mobile devices, or slow internet connections.

File size obfuscation has never been a cryptographically effective protection against adversaries getting to know the approximate cleartext size. Anything the size of a movie remained the size of a movie and was most likely not mistaken for a text document. Nevertheless, we will miss you. R.I.P.

<hr/>

## Cryptomator 1.2.0 for iOS
- Added compatibility to vaults created with desktop version 1.2.0
- Added file sizes to directory listing (only available for newly-created or migrated vaults)
- Added "sort by date" in directory listing
- Added filter capability in directory listing
- Added favorite folders to file upload
- Added sticker pack with Cryptobot for Messages (available for iOS 10)
- Improved clean up of temporary files
- Fixed upload of large files in iCloud Drive, Dropbox, and OneDrive
- Fixed access of shared folders in OneDrive
- Fixed directory listing that limited the number of files shown in Google Drive and OneDrive
- Fixed last modified date in Google Drive
- Fixed reauthentication of some cloud storage services

<hr/>

## Cryptomator for Android
We are confident that we can inform you about a beta release in the next weeks. Stay tuned and thank you for your patience!
